Experimental KRaft mode for development and testing (#6791)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/operators/ref-operator-cluster-feature-gates.adoc

To enable the `UseStrimziPodSets` feature gate, specify `+UseStrimziPodSets` in the `STRIMZI_FEATURE_GATES` environment variable in the Cluster Operator configuration.

IMPORTANT: The `UseStrimziPodSets` feature gate must be disabled when downgrading to Strimzi 0.27 and earlier versions.

[id='ref-operator-use-kraft-feature-gate-{context}']
== UseKRaft feature gate

The `UseKRaft` feature gate has a default state of _disabled_.

The `UseKRaft` feature gate deploys the Kafka cluster in the KRaft mode (without ZooKeeper).
This feature gate is currently intended only for development and testing.

> The KRaft mode is not ready for production in Apache Kafka or in Strimzi.

Reviewer: Bold perhaps?

To enable the `UseStrimziPodSets` feature gate, specify `+UseStrimziPodSets` in the `STRIMZI_FEATURE_GATES` environment variable in the Cluster Operator configuration.

IMPORTANT: The `UseStrimziPodSets` feature gate must be disabled when downgrading to Strimzi 0.27 and earlier versions.

[id='ref-operator-use-kraft-feature-gate-{context}']
== UseKRaft feature gate

The `UseKRaft` feature gate has a default state of _disabled_.

> The `UseKRaft` feature gate deploys the Kafka cluster in the KRaft mode (without ZooKeeper).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `UseKRaft` feature gate deploys the Kafka cluster in the KRaft (Kafka Raft metadata) mode without ZooKeeper.
```

This feature gate is currently intended only for development and testing.

IMPORTANT: **The KRaft mode is not ready for production in Apache Kafka or in Strimzi.**

When the `UseKRaft` feature gate is enabled, the Kafka cluster will be deployed without ZooKeeper.

> The `.spec.zookeeper` section in the Kafka CR will be ignored, but still needs to be present.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.spec.zookeeper` properties in the Kafka custom resource will be ignored, but still need to be present.
```

The API provided by the `UseKRaft` feature gate for configuring the Kafka cluster nodes and their roles is not final and is expected to change before the KRaft mode is production ready.

> Currently, the KRaft mode in Strimzi has several major limitations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the KRaft mode in Strimzi has the following major limitations:
```

* Moving from Kafka clusters with ZooKeeper to KRaft clusters or the other way around is not supported.

> * Upgrades / downgrades of Apache Kafka versions or of the Strimzi operator are not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Upgrades and downgrades of Apache Kafka versions or the Strimzi operator are not supported.
```

  Users might need to delete the cluster, upgrade the operator and deploy a new Kafka cluster.

> * Entity Operator (both User and Topic operator) are not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Entity Operator (including the User Operator and Topic operator) is not supported.
```

>   The `spec.entityOperator` section should be removed from the Kafka custom resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `spec.entityOperator` proeprties must be removed from the `Kafka` custom resource.
```

* `simple` authorization is not supported.
* SCRAM-SHA-512 authentication is not supported.

> * JBOD storage is not supported (the `type: jbod` storage can be used, but the JBOD array can contain only one disk).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* JBOD storage is not supported. 
The `type: jbod` storage can be used, but the JBOD array can contain only one disk.
```

> * Liveness and readiness probes are disabled.

Reviewer 2: Are or need to be?

Author: They are disabled automatically, nothing the user needs to do.

> * All Kafka nodes have both the `controller` and `broker` KRaft roles.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear why this is a limitation

Author: Improved.

> For more information about the `UseKRaft` feature gate, see the link:https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/blob/main/036-kraft-mode.md[KRaft mode proposal^]

Reviewer 2: Do we need a link to the proposal? We don't normally link to proposals.  I'm not sure there's a lot more to learned from it, as we have the limitations here.

Author: Ok, removed.

To enable the `UseStrimziPodSets` feature gate, specify `+UseStrimziPodSets` in the `STRIMZI_FEATURE_GATES` environment variable in the Cluster Operator configuration.

IMPORTANT: The `UseStrimziPodSets` feature gate must be disabled when downgrading to Strimzi 0.27 and earlier versions.

[id='ref-operator-use-kraft-feature-gate-{context}']
== (Preview) UseKRaft feature gate

The `UseKRaft` feature gate has a default state of _disabled_.

The `UseKRaft` feature gate deploys the Kafka cluster in the KRaft (Kafka Raft metadata) mode without ZooKeeper.
This feature gate is currently intended only for development and testing.

IMPORTANT: **The KRaft mode is not ready for production in Apache Kafka or in Strimzi.**

When the `UseKRaft` feature gate is enabled, the Kafka cluster is deployed without ZooKeeper.

> The `.spec.zookeeper` properties in the Kafka custom resource will be ignored, but still need to be present.

Reviewer 3: I would highlight more this in bold, at least the part "still need to be present".

The `UseKRaft` feature gate provides an API that configures Kafka cluster nodes and their roles.
The API is still in development and is expected to change before the KRaft mode is production-ready.

Currently, the KRaft mode in Strimzi has the following major limitations:

* Moving from Kafka clusters with ZooKeeper to KRaft clusters or the other way around is not supported.
* Upgrades and downgrades of Apache Kafka versions or the Strimzi operator are not supported.
  Users might need to delete the cluster, upgrade the operator and deploy a new Kafka cluster.
* The Entity Operator (including the User Operator and Topic operator) is not supported.

>   The `spec.entityOperator` property must be removed from the `Kafka` custom resource.

Reviewer 3: As before highlight this in bold ... "must be removed" ... which is actually different from the ZooKeeper behaviour.
